Appendix A Reporting Bugs
*************************

Please report all bugs you find in Bash.  But first, you should make
sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest version
of Bash.  The latest version of Bash is always available for FTP from
<ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/>.

   Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the
'bashbug' command to submit a bug report.  If you have a fix, you are
encouraged to mail that as well!  Suggestions and 'philosophical' bug
reports may be mailed to <bug-bash@gnu.org> or posted to the Usenet
newsgroup 'gnu.bash.bug'.

   All bug reports should include:
   * The version number of Bash.
   * The hardware and operating system.
   * The compiler used to compile Bash.
   * A description of the bug behaviour.
   * A short script or 'recipe' which exercises the bug and may be used
     to reproduce it.

'bashbug' inserts the first three items automatically into the template
it provides for filing a bug report.

   Please send all reports concerning this manual to
<chet.ramey@case.edu>.

Appendix B Major Differences From The Bourne Shell
**************************************************

Bash implements essentially the same grammar, parameter and variable
expansion, redirection, and quoting as the Bourne Shell.  Bash uses the
POSIX standard as the specification of how these features are to be
implemented.  There are some differences between the traditional Bourne
shell and Bash; this section quickly details the differences of
significance.  A number of these differences are explained in greater
depth in previous sections.  This section uses the version of 'sh'
included in SVR4.2 (the last version of the historical Bourne shell) as
the baseline reference.

   * Bash is POSIX-conformant, even where the POSIX specification
     differs from traditional 'sh' behavior (*note Bash POSIX Mode::).

   * Bash has multi-character invocation options (*note Invoking
     Bash::).

   * Bash has command-line editing (*note Command Line Editing::) and
     the 'bind' builtin.

   * Bash provides a programmable word completion mechanism (*note
     Programmable Completion::), and builtin commands 'complete',
     'compgen', and 'compopt', to manipulate it.

   * Bash has command history (*note Bash History Facilities::) and the
     'history' and 'fc' builtins to manipulate it.  The Bash history
     list maintains timestamp information and uses the value of the
     'HISTTIMEFORMAT' variable to display it.

   * Bash implements 'csh'-like history expansion (*note History
     Interaction::).

   * Bash has one-dimensional array variables (*note Arrays::), and the
     appropriate variable expansions and assignment syntax to use them.
     Several of the Bash builtins take options to act on arrays.  Bash
     provides a number of built-in array variables.

   * The '$'...'' quoting syntax, which expands ANSI-C backslash-escaped
     characters in the text between the single quotes, is supported
     (*note ANSI-C Quoting::).

   * Bash supports the '$"..."' quoting syntax to do locale-specific
     translation of the characters between the double quotes.  The '-D',
     '--dump-strings', and '--dump-po-strings' invocation options list
     the translatable strings found in a script (*note Locale
     Translation::).

   * Bash implements the '!' keyword to negate the return value of a
     pipeline (*note Pipelines::).  Very useful when an 'if' statement
     needs to act only if a test fails.  The Bash '-o pipefail' option
     to 'set' will cause a pipeline to return a failure status if any
     command fails.

   * Bash has the 'time' reserved word and command timing (*note
     Pipelines::).  The display of the timing statistics may be
     controlled with the 'TIMEFORMAT' variable.

   * Bash implements the 'for (( EXPR1 ; EXPR2 ; EXPR3 ))' arithmetic
     for command, similar to the C language (*note Looping
     Constructs::).

   * Bash includes the 'select' compound command, which allows the
     generation of simple menus (*note Conditional Constructs::).

   * Bash includes the '[[' compound command, which makes conditional
     testing part of the shell grammar (*note Conditional Constructs::),
     including optional regular expression matching.

   * Bash provides optional case-insensitive matching for the 'case' and
     '[[' constructs.

   * Bash includes brace expansion (*note Brace Expansion::) and tilde
     expansion (*note Tilde Expansion::).

   * Bash implements command aliases and the 'alias' and 'unalias'
     builtins (*note Aliases::).

   * Bash provides shell arithmetic, the '((' compound command (*note
     Conditional Constructs::), and arithmetic expansion (*note Shell
     Arithmetic::).

   * Variables present in the shell's initial environment are
     automatically exported to child processes.  The Bourne shell does
     not normally do this unless the variables are explicitly marked
     using the 'export' command.

   * Bash supports the '+=' assignment operator, which appends to the
     value of the variable named on the left hand side.

   * Bash includes the POSIX pattern removal '%', '#', '%%' and '##'
     expansions to remove leading or trailing substrings from variable
     values (*note Shell Parameter Expansion::).

   * The expansion '${#xx}', which returns the length of '${xx}', is
     supported (*note Shell Parameter Expansion::).

   * The expansion '${var:'OFFSET'[:'LENGTH']}', which expands to the
     substring of 'var''s value of length LENGTH, beginning at OFFSET,
     is present (*note Shell Parameter Expansion::).

   * The expansion '${var/[/]'PATTERN'[/'REPLACEMENT']}', which matches
     PATTERN and replaces it with REPLACEMENT in the value of 'var', is
     available (*note Shell Parameter Expansion::).

   * The expansion '${!PREFIX}*' expansion, which expands to the names
     of all shell variables whose names begin with PREFIX, is available
     (*note Shell Parameter Expansion::).

   * Bash has INDIRECT variable expansion using '${!word}' (*note Shell
     Parameter Expansion::).

   * Bash can expand positional parameters beyond '$9' using '${NUM}'.

   * The POSIX '$()' form of command substitution is implemented (*note
     Command Substitution::), and preferred to the Bourne shell's '``'
     (which is also implemented for backwards compatibility).

   * Bash has process substitution (*note Process Substitution::).

   * Bash automatically assigns variables that provide information about
     the current user ('UID', 'EUID', and 'GROUPS'), the current host
     ('HOSTTYPE', 'OSTYPE', 'MACHTYPE', and 'HOSTNAME'), and the
     instance of Bash that is running ('BASH', 'BASH_VERSION', and
     'BASH_VERSINFO').  *Note Bash Variables::, for details.

   * The 'IFS' variable is used to split only the results of expansion,
     not all words (*note Word Splitting::).  This closes a longstanding
     shell security hole.

   * Bash implements the full set of POSIX filename expansion operators,
     including CHARACTER CLASSES, EQUIVALENCE CLASSES, and COLLATING
     SYMBOLS (*note Filename Expansion::).

   * Bash implements extended pattern matching features when the
     'extglob' shell option is enabled (*note Pattern Matching::).

   * It is possible to have a variable and a function with the same
     name; 'sh' does not separate the two name spaces.

   * Bash functions are permitted to have local variables using the
     'local' builtin, and thus useful recursive functions may be written
     (*note Bash Builtins::).

   * Variable assignments preceding commands affect only that command,
     even builtins and functions (*note Environment::).  In 'sh', all
     variable assignments preceding commands are global unless the
     command is executed from the file system.

   * Bash performs filename expansion on filenames specified as operands
     to input and output redirection operators (*note Redirections::).

   * Bash contains the '<>' redirection operator, allowing a file to be
     opened for both reading and writing, and the '&>' redirection
     operator, for directing standard output and standard error to the
     same file (*note Redirections::).

   * Bash includes the '<<<' redirection operator, allowing a string to
     be used as the standard input to a command.

   * Bash implements the '[n]<&WORD' and '[n]>&WORD' redirection
     operators, which move one file descriptor to another.

   * Bash treats a number of filenames specially when they are used in
     redirection operators (*note Redirections::).

   * Bash can open network connections to arbitrary machines and
     services with the redirection operators (*note Redirections::).

   * The 'noclobber' option is available to avoid overwriting existing
     files with output redirection (*note The Set Builtin::).  The '>|'
     redirection operator may be used to override 'noclobber'.

   * The Bash 'cd' and 'pwd' builtins (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::)
     each take '-L' and '-P' options to switch between logical and
     physical modes.

   * Bash allows a function to override a builtin with the same name,
     and provides access to that builtin's functionality within the
     function via the 'builtin' and 'command' builtins (*note Bash
     Builtins::).

   * The 'command' builtin allows selective disabling of functions when
     command lookup is performed (*note Bash Builtins::).

   * Individual builtins may be enabled or disabled using the 'enable'
     builtin (*note Bash Builtins::).

   * The Bash 'exec' builtin takes additional options that allow users
     to control the contents of the environment passed to the executed
     command, and what the zeroth argument to the command is to be
     (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::).

   * Shell functions may be exported to children via the environment
     using 'export -f' (*note Shell Functions::).

   * The Bash 'export', 'readonly', and 'declare' builtins can take a
     '-f' option to act on shell functions, a '-p' option to display
     variables with various attributes set in a format that can be used
     as shell input, a '-n' option to remove various variable
     attributes, and 'name=value' arguments to set variable attributes
     and values simultaneously.

   * The Bash 'hash' builtin allows a name to be associated with an
     arbitrary filename, even when that filename cannot be found by
     searching the '$PATH', using 'hash -p' (*note Bourne Shell
     Builtins::).

   * Bash includes a 'help' builtin for quick reference to shell
     facilities (*note Bash Builtins::).

   * The 'printf' builtin is available to display formatted output
     (*note Bash Builtins::).

   * The Bash 'read' builtin (*note Bash Builtins::) will read a line
     ending in '\' with the '-r' option, and will use the 'REPLY'
     variable as a default if no non-option arguments are supplied.  The
     Bash 'read' builtin also accepts a prompt string with the '-p'
     option and will use Readline to obtain the line when given the '-e'
     option.  The 'read' builtin also has additional options to control
     input: the '-s' option will turn off echoing of input characters as
     they are read, the '-t' option will allow 'read' to time out if
     input does not arrive within a specified number of seconds, the
     '-n' option will allow reading only a specified number of
     characters rather than a full line, and the '-d' option will read
     until a particular character rather than newline.

   * The 'return' builtin may be used to abort execution of scripts
     executed with the '.' or 'source' builtins (*note Bourne Shell
     Builtins::).

   * Bash includes the 'shopt' builtin, for finer control of shell
     optional capabilities (*note The Shopt Builtin::), and allows these
     options to be set and unset at shell invocation (*note Invoking
     Bash::).

   * Bash has much more optional behavior controllable with the 'set'
     builtin (*note The Set Builtin::).

   * The '-x' ('xtrace') option displays commands other than simple
     commands when performing an execution trace (*note The Set
     Builtin::).

   * The 'test' builtin (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::) is slightly
     different, as it implements the POSIX algorithm, which specifies
     the behavior based on the number of arguments.

   * Bash includes the 'caller' builtin, which displays the context of
     any active subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed
     with the '.' or 'source' builtins).  This supports the bash
     debugger.

   * The 'trap' builtin (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::) allows a 'DEBUG'
     pseudo-signal specification, similar to 'EXIT'.  Commands specified
     with a 'DEBUG' trap are executed before every simple command, 'for'
     command, 'case' command, 'select' command, every arithmetic 'for'
     command, and before the first command executes in a shell function.
     The 'DEBUG' trap is not inherited by shell functions unless the
     function has been given the 'trace' attribute or the 'functrace'
     option has been enabled using the 'shopt' builtin.  The 'extdebug'
     shell option has additional effects on the 'DEBUG' trap.

     The 'trap' builtin (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::) allows an 'ERR'
     pseudo-signal specification, similar to 'EXIT' and 'DEBUG'.
     Commands specified with an 'ERR' trap are executed after a simple
     command fails, with a few exceptions.  The 'ERR' trap is not
     inherited by shell functions unless the '-o errtrace' option to the
     'set' builtin is enabled.

     The 'trap' builtin (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::) allows a
     'RETURN' pseudo-signal specification, similar to 'EXIT' and
     'DEBUG'.  Commands specified with an 'RETURN' trap are executed
     before execution resumes after a shell function or a shell script
     executed with '.' or 'source' returns.  The 'RETURN' trap is not
     inherited by shell functions unless the function has been given the
     'trace' attribute or the 'functrace' option has been enabled using
     the 'shopt' builtin.

   * The Bash 'type' builtin is more extensive and gives more
     information about the names it finds (*note Bash Builtins::).

   * The Bash 'umask' builtin permits a '-p' option to cause the output
     to be displayed in the form of a 'umask' command that may be reused
     as input (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::).

   * Bash implements a 'csh'-like directory stack, and provides the
     'pushd', 'popd', and 'dirs' builtins to manipulate it (*note The
     Directory Stack::).  Bash also makes the directory stack visible as
     the value of the 'DIRSTACK' shell variable.

   * Bash interprets special backslash-escaped characters in the prompt
     strings when interactive (*note Printing a Prompt::).

   * The Bash restricted mode is more useful (*note The Restricted
     Shell::); the SVR4.2 shell restricted mode is too limited.

   * The 'disown' builtin can remove a job from the internal shell job
     table (*note Job Control Builtins::) or suppress the sending of
     'SIGHUP' to a job when the shell exits as the result of a 'SIGHUP'.

   * Bash includes a number of features to support a separate debugger
     for shell scripts.

   * The SVR4.2 shell has two privilege-related builtins ('mldmode' and
     'priv') not present in Bash.

   * Bash does not have the 'stop' or 'newgrp' builtins.

   * Bash does not use the 'SHACCT' variable or perform shell
     accounting.

   * The SVR4.2 'sh' uses a 'TIMEOUT' variable like Bash uses 'TMOUT'.

More features unique to Bash may be found in *note Bash Features::.

B.1 Implementation Differences From The SVR4.2 Shell
====================================================

Since Bash is a completely new implementation, it does not suffer from
many of the limitations of the SVR4.2 shell.  For instance:

   * Bash does not fork a subshell when redirecting into or out of a
     shell control structure such as an 'if' or 'while' statement.

   * Bash does not allow unbalanced quotes.  The SVR4.2 shell will
     silently insert a needed closing quote at 'EOF' under certain
     circumstances.  This can be the cause of some hard-to-find errors.

   * The SVR4.2 shell uses a baroque memory management scheme based on
     trapping 'SIGSEGV'.  If the shell is started from a process with
     'SIGSEGV' blocked (e.g., by using the 'system()' C library function
     call), it misbehaves badly.

   * In a questionable attempt at security, the SVR4.2 shell, when
     invoked without the '-p' option, will alter its real and effective
     UID and GID if they are less than some magic threshold value,
     commonly 100.  This can lead to unexpected results.

   * The SVR4.2 shell does not allow users to trap 'SIGSEGV', 'SIGALRM',
     or 'SIGCHLD'.

   * The SVR4.2 shell does not allow the 'IFS', 'MAILCHECK', 'PATH',
     'PS1', or 'PS2' variables to be unset.

   * The SVR4.2 shell treats '^' as the undocumented equivalent of '|'.

   * Bash allows multiple option arguments when it is invoked ('-x -v');
     the SVR4.2 shell allows only one option argument ('-xv').  In fact,
     some versions of the shell dump core if the second argument begins
     with a '-'.

   * The SVR4.2 shell exits a script if any builtin fails; Bash exits a
     script only if one of the POSIX special builtins fails, and only
     for certain failures, as enumerated in the POSIX standard.

   * The SVR4.2 shell behaves differently when invoked as 'jsh' (it
     turns on job control).

Appendix C GNU Free Documentation License
*****************************************

                     Version 1.3, 3 November 2008

     Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     <http://fsf.org/>

     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
     of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

  0. PREAMBLE

     The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
     functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to
     assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it,
     with or without modifying it, either commercially or
     noncommercially.  Secondarily, this License preserves for the
     author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not
     being considered responsible for modifications made by others.

     This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
     works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.
     It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
     license designed for free software.

     We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for
     free software, because free software needs free documentation: a
     free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms
     that the software does.  But this License is not limited to
     software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
     of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book.  We
     recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is
     instruction or reference.

  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

     This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium,
     that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can
     be distributed under the terms of this License.  Such a notice
     grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration,
     to use that work under the conditions stated herein.  The
     "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work.  Any member
     of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".  You accept
     the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a way
     requiring permission under copyright law.

     A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
     Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
     modifications and/or translated into another language.

     A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section
     of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
     publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall
     subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could
     fall directly within that overall subject.  (Thus, if the Document
     is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not
     explain any mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of
     historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or
     of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position
     regarding them.

     The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose
     titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the
     notice that says that the Document is released under this License.
     If a section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it
     is not allowed to be designated as Invariant.  The Document may
     contain zero Invariant Sections.  If the Document does not identify
     any Invariant Sections then there are none.

     The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are
     listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice
     that says that the Document is released under this License.  A
     Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may
     be at most 25 words.

     A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
     represented in a format whose specification is available to the
     general public, that is suitable for revising the document
     straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed
     of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely
     available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text
     formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats
     suitable for input to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise
     Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup, has
     been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by
     readers is not Transparent.  An image format is not Transparent if
     used for any substantial amount of text.  A copy that is not
     "Transparent" is called "Opaque".

     Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
     ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format,
     SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming
     simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification.
     Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG.
     Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and
     edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which
     the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and
     the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word
     processors for output purposes only.

     The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
     plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the
     material this License requires to appear in the title page.  For
     works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title
     Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the
     work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

     The "publisher" means any person or entity that distributes copies
     of the Document to the public.

     A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document
     whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses
     following text that translates XYZ in another language.  (Here XYZ
     stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as
     "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".)
     To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the
     Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according
     to this definition.

     The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice
     which states that this License applies to the Document.  These
     Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in
     this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other
     implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and
     has no effect on the meaning of this License.

  2. VERBATIM COPYING

     You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
     commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
     copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License
     applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you
     add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You
     may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
     or further copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However,
     you may accept compensation in exchange for copies.  If you
     distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the
     conditions in section 3.

     You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above,
     and you may publicly display copies.

  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

     If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly
     have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and
     the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must
     enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all
     these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and
     Back-Cover Texts on the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly
     and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies.  The
     front cover must present the full title with all words of the title
     equally prominent and visible.  You may add other material on the
     covers in addition.  Copying with changes limited to the covers, as
     long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these
     conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.

     If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
     legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
     reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto
     adjacent pages.

     If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document
     numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable
     Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with
     each Opaque copy a computer-network location from which the general
     network-using public has access to download using public-standard
     network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free
     of added material.  If you use the latter option, you must take
     reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque
     copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will
     remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one
     year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
     through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

     It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of
     the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies,
     to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the
     Document.

  4. MODIFICATIONS

     You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document
     under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you
     release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the
     Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing
     distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever
     possesses a copy of it.  In addition, you must do these things in
     the Modified Version:

       A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title
          distinct from that of the Document, and from those of previous
          versions (which should, if there were any, be listed in the
          History section of the Document).  You may use the same title
          as a previous version if the original publisher of that
          version gives permission.

       B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or
          entities responsible for authorship of the modifications in
          the Modified Version, together with at least five of the
          principal authors of the Document (all of its principal
          authors, if it has fewer than five), unless they release you
          from this requirement.

       C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
          Modified Version, as the publisher.

       D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.

       E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
          adjacent to the other copyright notices.

       F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license
          notice giving the public permission to use the Modified
          Version under the terms of this License, in the form shown in
          the Addendum below.

       G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant
          Sections and required Cover Texts given in the Document's
          license notice.

       H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.

       I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title,
          and add to it an item stating at least the title, year, new
          authors, and publisher of the Modified Version as given on the
          Title Page.  If there is no section Entitled "History" in the
          Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and
          publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add
          an item describing the Modified Version as stated in the
          previous sentence.

       J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document
          for public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and
          likewise the network locations given in the Document for
          previous versions it was based on.  These may be placed in the
          "History" section.  You may omit a network location for a work
          that was published at least four years before the Document
          itself, or if the original publisher of the version it refers
          to gives permission.

       K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
          Preserve the Title of the section, and preserve in the section
          all the substance and tone of each of the contributor
          acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.

       L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered
          in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers or the
          equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.

       M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
          may not be included in the Modified Version.

       N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled
          "Endorsements" or to conflict in title with any Invariant
          Section.

       O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

     If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
     appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no
     material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate
     some or all of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their
     titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's
     license notice.  These titles must be distinct from any other
     section titles.

     You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
     nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
     parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text
     has been approved by an organization as the authoritative
     definition of a standard.

     You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text,
     and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of
     the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage
     of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
     through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document
     already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added
     by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on
     behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old
     one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added
     the old one.

     The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this
     License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to
     assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.

  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

     You may combine the Document with other documents released under
     this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for
     modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all
     of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents,
     unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
     combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all
     their Warranty Disclaimers.

     The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
     multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
     copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name
     but different contents, make the title of each such section unique
     by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the
     original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
     unique number.  Make the same adjustment to the section titles in
     the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the
     combined work.

     In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled
     "History" in the various original documents, forming one section
     Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled
     "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled "Dedications".  You
     must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements."

  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

     You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other
     documents released under this License, and replace the individual
     copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy
     that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the
     rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents
     in all other respects.

     You may extract a single document from such a collection, and
     distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert
     a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this
     License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that
     document.

  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

     A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other
     separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a
     storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the
     copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the
     legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual
     works permit.  When the Document is included in an aggregate, this
     License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which
     are not themselves derivative works of the Document.

     If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
     copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half
     of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed
     on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the
     electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic
     form.  Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket
     the whole aggregate.

  8. TRANSLATION

     Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
     distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section
     4.  Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
     permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
     translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
     original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
     translation of this License, and all the license notices in the
     Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also
     include the original English version of this License and the
     original versions of those notices and disclaimers.  In case of a
     disagreement between the translation and the original version of
     this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
     prevail.

     If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements",
     "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to
     Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the
     actual title.

  9. TERMINATION

     You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document
     except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
     otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void,
     and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.

     However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your
     license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a)
     provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and
     finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the
     copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by some
     reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

     Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
     reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
     violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
     received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from
     that copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days
     after your receipt of the notice.

     Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate
     the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you
     under this License.  If your rights have been terminated and not
     permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the
     same material does not give you any rights to use it.

  10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

     The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of
     the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
     versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
     differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
     <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/>.

     Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version
     number.  If the Document specifies that a particular numbered
     version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you
     have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
     that specified version or of any later version that has been
     published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.  If the
     Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may
     choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free
     Software Foundation.  If the Document specifies that a proxy can
     decide which future versions of this License can be used, that
     proxy's public statement of acceptance of a version permanently
     authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.

  11. RELICENSING

     "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site" (or "MMC Site") means any
     World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also
     provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works.  A
     public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server.
     A "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration" (or "MMC") contained in the
     site means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC
     site.

     "CC-BY-SA" means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0
     license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit
     corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco,
     California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license
     published by that same organization.

     "Incorporate" means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or
     in part, as part of another Document.

     An MMC is "eligible for relicensing" if it is licensed under this
     License, and if all works that were first published under this
     License somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently
     incorporated in whole or in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover
     texts or invariant sections, and (2) were thus incorporated prior
     to November 1, 2008.

     The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the
     site under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1,
     2009, provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
====================================================

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and license
notices just after the title page:

       Copyright (C)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
       under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
       or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
       with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
       Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
       Free Documentation License''.

   If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover
Texts, replace the "with...Texts."  line with this:

         with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with
         the Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts
         being LIST.

   If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
situation.

   If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free
software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit
their use in free software.

Appendix D Indexes
******************

D.1 Index of Shell Builtin Commands
===================================

* Menu:

* .:                                     Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2323)
* ::                                     Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2318)
* [:                                     Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2526)
* alias:                                 Bash Builtins.      (line 2681)
* bg:                                    Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5754)
* bind:                                  Bash Builtins.      (line 2691)
* break:                                 Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2336)
* builtin:                               Bash Builtins.      (line 2767)
* caller:                                Bash Builtins.      (line 2775)
* cd:                                    Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2343)
* command:                               Bash Builtins.      (line 2791)
* compgen:                               Programmable Completion Builtins.
                                                             (line 7316)
* complete:                              Programmable Completion Builtins.
                                                             (line 7334)
* compopt:                               Programmable Completion Builtins.
                                                             (line 7521)
* continue:                              Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2365)
* declare:                               Bash Builtins.      (line 2810)
* dirs:                                  Directory Stack Builtins.
                                                             (line 5278)
* disown:                                Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5829)
* echo:                                  Bash Builtins.      (line 2894)
* enable:                                Bash Builtins.      (line 2941)
* eval:                                  Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2373)
* exec:                                  Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2380)
* exit:                                  Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2392)
* export:                                Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2398)
* fc:                                    Bash History Builtins.
                                                             (line 7603)
* fg:                                    Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5763)
* getopts:                               Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2413)
* hash:                                  Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2455)
* help:                                  Bash Builtins.      (line 2969)
* history:                               Bash History Builtins.
                                                             (line 7632)
* jobs:                                  Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5772)
* kill:                                  Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5803)
* let:                                   Bash Builtins.      (line 2987)
* local:                                 Bash Builtins.      (line 2994)
* logout:                                Bash Builtins.      (line 3004)
* mapfile:                               Bash Builtins.      (line 3008)
* popd:                                  Directory Stack Builtins.
                                                             (line 5303)
* printf:                                Bash Builtins.      (line 3049)
* pushd:                                 Directory Stack Builtins.
                                                             (line 5322)
* pwd:                                   Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2474)
* read:                                  Bash Builtins.      (line 3091)
* readarray:                             Bash Builtins.      (line 3170)
* readonly:                              Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2483)
* return:                                Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2501)
* set:                                   The Set Builtin.    (line 3323)
* shift:                                 Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2514)
* shopt:                                 The Shopt Builtin.  (line 3586)
* source:                                Bash Builtins.      (line 3178)
* suspend:                               Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5840)
* test:                                  Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2526)
* times:                                 Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2598)
* trap:                                  Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2603)
* type:                                  Bash Builtins.      (line 3182)
* typeset:                               Bash Builtins.      (line 3213)
* ulimit:                                Bash Builtins.      (line 3219)
* umask:                                 Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2648)
* unalias:                               Bash Builtins.      (line 3307)
* unset:                                 Bourne Shell Builtins.
                                                             (line 2665)
* wait:                                  Job Control Builtins.
                                                             (line 5819)

D.2 Index of Shell Reserved Words
=================================

* Menu:

* !:                                     Pipelines.          (line  544)
* [[:                                    Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  815)
* ]]:                                    Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  815)
* {:                                     Command Grouping.   (line  894)
* }:                                     Command Grouping.   (line  894)
* case:                                  Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  725)
* do:                                    Looping Constructs. (line  655)
* done:                                  Looping Constructs. (line  655)
* elif:                                  Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  704)
* else:                                  Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  704)
* esac:                                  Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  725)
* fi:                                    Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  704)
* for:                                   Looping Constructs. (line  672)
* function:                              Shell Functions.    (line 1008)
* if:                                    Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  704)
* in:                                    Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  725)
* select:                                Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  773)
* then:                                  Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  704)
* time:                                  Pipelines.          (line  544)
* until:                                 Looping Constructs. (line  655)
* while:                                 Looping Constructs. (line  663)

D.3 Parameter and Variable Index
================================

* Menu:

* !:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1190)
* #:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1174)
* $:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1186)
* *:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1153)
* -:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1181)
* 0:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1194)
* ?:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1177)
* @:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1163)
* _:                                     Special Parameters. (line 1203)
* auto_resume:                           Job Control Variables.
                                                             (line 5851)
* BASH:                                  Bash Variables.     (line 3966)
* BASHOPTS:                              Bash Variables.     (line 3969)
* BASHPID:                               Bash Variables.     (line 3978)
* BASH_ALIASES:                          Bash Variables.     (line 3983)
* BASH_ARGC:                             Bash Variables.     (line 3990)
* BASH_ARGV:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4000)
* BASH_CMDS:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4010)
* BASH_COMMAND:                          Bash Variables.     (line 4017)
* BASH_ENV:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4022)
* BASH_EXECUTION_STRING:                 Bash Variables.     (line 4028)
* BASH_LINENO:                           Bash Variables.     (line 4031)
* BASH_REMATCH:                          Bash Variables.     (line 4039)
* BASH_SOURCE:                           Bash Variables.     (line 4047)
* BASH_SUBSHELL:                         Bash Variables.     (line 4054)
* BASH_VERSINFO:                         Bash Variables.     (line 4058)
* BASH_VERSION:                          Bash Variables.     (line 4081)
* BASH_XTRACEFD:                         Bash Variables.     (line 4084)
* bell-style:                            Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6152)
* bind-tty-special-chars:                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6159)
* CDPATH:                                Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3909)
* COLUMNS:                               Bash Variables.     (line 4095)
* comment-begin:                         Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6164)
* completion-display-width:              Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6169)
* completion-ignore-case:                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6176)
* completion-map-case:                   Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6181)
* completion-prefix-display-length:      Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6187)
* completion-query-items:                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6194)
* COMPREPLY:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4146)
* COMP_CWORD:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4100)
* COMP_KEY:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4129)
* COMP_LINE:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4106)
* COMP_POINT:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4111)
* COMP_TYPE:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4119)
* COMP_WORDBREAKS:                       Bash Variables.     (line 4133)
* COMP_WORDS:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4139)
* convert-meta:                          Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6204)
* COPROC:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4151)
* DIRSTACK:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4155)
* disable-completion:                    Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6210)
* editing-mode:                          Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6215)
* EMACS:                                 Bash Variables.     (line 4165)
* enable-keypad:                         Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6226)
* ENV:                                   Bash Variables.     (line 4170)
* EUID:                                  Bash Variables.     (line 4174)
* expand-tilde:                          Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6237)
* FCEDIT:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4178)
* FIGNORE:                               Bash Variables.     (line 4182)
* FUNCNAME:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4188)
* FUNCNEST:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4206)
* GLOBIGNORE:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4211)
* GROUPS:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4217)
* histchars:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4223)
* HISTCMD:                               Bash Variables.     (line 4238)
* HISTCONTROL:                           Bash Variables.     (line 4243)
* HISTFILE:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4259)
* HISTFILESIZE:                          Bash Variables.     (line 4263)
* HISTIGNORE:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4271)
* history-preserve-point:                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6241)
* history-size:                          Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6247)
* HISTSIZE:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4290)
* HISTTIMEFORMAT:                        Bash Variables.     (line 4294)
* HOME:                                  Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3913)
* horizontal-scroll-mode:                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6252)
* HOSTFILE:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4302)
* HOSTNAME:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4313)
* HOSTTYPE:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4316)
* IFS:                                   Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3918)
* IGNOREEOF:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4319)
* input-meta:                            Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6259)
* INPUTRC:                               Bash Variables.     (line 4329)
* isearch-terminators:                   Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6266)
* keymap:                                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6273)
* LANG:                                  Bash Variables.     (line 4333)
* LC_ALL:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4337)
* LC_COLLATE:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4341)
* LC_CTYPE:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4348)
* LC_MESSAGES:                           Locale Translation. (line  494)
* LC_MESSAGES <1>:                       Bash Variables.     (line 4353)
* LC_NUMERIC:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4357)
* LINENO:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4361)
* LINES:                                 Bash Variables.     (line 4365)
* MACHTYPE:                              Bash Variables.     (line 4370)
* MAIL:                                  Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3922)
* MAILCHECK:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4374)
* MAILPATH:                              Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3927)
* MAPFILE:                               Bash Variables.     (line 4382)
* mark-modified-lines:                   Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6286)
* mark-symlinked-directories:            Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6291)
* match-hidden-files:                    Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6296)
* menu-complete-display-prefix:          Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6303)
* meta-flag:                             Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6259)
* OLDPWD:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4386)
* OPTARG:                                Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3934)
* OPTERR:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4389)
* OPTIND:                                Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3938)
* OSTYPE:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4393)
* output-meta:                           Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6308)
* page-completions:                      Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6313)
* PATH:                                  Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3942)
* PIPESTATUS:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4396)
* POSIXLY_CORRECT:                       Bash Variables.     (line 4401)
* PPID:                                  Bash Variables.     (line 4410)
* PROMPT_COMMAND:                        Bash Variables.     (line 4414)
* PROMPT_DIRTRIM:                        Bash Variables.     (line 4418)
* PS1:                                   Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3948)
* PS2:                                   Bourne Shell Variables.
                                                             (line 3953)
* PS3:                                   Bash Variables.     (line 4424)
* PS4:                                   Bash Variables.     (line 4429)
* PWD:                                   Bash Variables.     (line 4435)
* RANDOM:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4438)
* READLINE_LINE:                         Bash Variables.     (line 4443)
* READLINE_POINT:                        Bash Variables.     (line 4447)
* REPLY:                                 Bash Variables.     (line 4451)
* revert-all-at-newline:                 Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6323)
* SECONDS:                               Bash Variables.     (line 4454)
* SHELL:                                 Bash Variables.     (line 4460)
* SHELLOPTS:                             Bash Variables.     (line 4465)
* SHLVL:                                 Bash Variables.     (line 4474)
* show-all-if-ambiguous:                 Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6329)
* show-all-if-unmodified:                Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6335)
* skip-completed-text:                   Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6344)
* TEXTDOMAIN:                            Locale Translation. (line  494)
* TEXTDOMAINDIR:                         Locale Translation. (line  494)
* TIMEFORMAT:                            Bash Variables.     (line 4479)
* TMOUT:                                 Bash Variables.     (line 4517)
* TMPDIR:                                Bash Variables.     (line 4529)
* UID:                                   Bash Variables.     (line 4533)
* visible-stats:                         Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6357)

D.4 Function Index
==================

* Menu:

* abort (C-g):                           Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7031)
* accept-line (Newline or Return):       Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6684)
* alias-expand-line ():                  Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7145)
* backward-char (C-b):                   Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6655)
* backward-delete-char (Rubout):         Commands For Text.  (line 6763)
* backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout):       Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6822)
* backward-kill-word (M-<DEL>):          Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6837)
* backward-word (M-b):                   Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6662)
* beginning-of-history (M-<):            Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6698)
* beginning-of-line (C-a):               Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6646)
* call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e):           Keyboard Macros.    (line 7020)
* capitalize-word (M-c):                 Commands For Text.  (line 6798)
* character-search (C-]):                Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7062)
* character-search-backward (M-C-]):     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7067)
* clear-screen (C-l):                    Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6674)
* complete (<TAB>):                      Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6911)
* complete-command (M-!):                Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6985)
* complete-filename (M-/):               Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6954)
* complete-hostname (M-@):               Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6977)
* complete-into-braces (M-{):            Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 7005)
* complete-username (M-~):               Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6961)
* complete-variable (M-$):               Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6969)
* copy-backward-word ():                 Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6871)
* copy-forward-word ():                  Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6876)
* copy-region-as-kill ():                Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6867)
* dabbrev-expand ():                     Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 7000)
* delete-char (C-d):                     Commands For Text.  (line 6758)
* delete-char-or-list ():                Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6948)
* delete-horizontal-space ():            Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6859)
* digit-argument ('M-0', 'M-1', ... 'M--'): Numeric Arguments.
                                                             (line 6891)
* display-shell-version (C-x C-v):       Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7130)
* do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-X, ...): Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7035)
* downcase-word (M-l):                   Commands For Text.  (line 6794)
* dump-functions ():                     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7094)
* dump-macros ():                        Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7106)
* dump-variables ():                     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7100)
* dynamic-complete-history (M-<TAB>):    Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6995)
* edit-and-execute-command (C-xC-e):     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7159)
* end-kbd-macro (C-x )):                 Keyboard Macros.    (line 7016)
* end-of-history (M->):                  Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6701)
* end-of-line (C-e):                     Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6649)
* exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x):     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7057)
* forward-backward-delete-char ():       Commands For Text.  (line 6767)
* forward-char (C-f):                    Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6652)
* forward-search-history (C-s):          Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6709)
* forward-word (M-f):                    Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6658)
* glob-complete-word (M-g):              Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7112)
* glob-expand-word (C-x *):              Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7118)
* glob-list-expansions (C-x g):          Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7124)
* history-and-alias-expand-line ():      Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7148)
* history-expand-line (M-^):             Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7138)
* history-search-backward ():            Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6729)
* history-search-forward ():             Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6724)
* insert-comment (M-#):                  Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7081)
* insert-completions (M-*):              Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6927)
* insert-last-argument (M-. or M-_):     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7151)
* kill-line (C-k):                       Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6819)
* kill-region ():                        Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6863)
* kill-whole-line ():                    Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6828)
* kill-word (M-d):                       Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6832)
* magic-space ():                        Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7141)
* menu-complete ():                      Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6931)
* menu-complete-backward ():             Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6943)
* next-history (C-n):                    Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6695)
* non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n): Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6719)
* non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p): Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6714)
* operate-and-get-next (C-o):            Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7154)
* overwrite-mode ():                     Commands For Text.  (line 6802)
* possible-command-completions (C-x !):  Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6991)
* possible-completions (M-?):            Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6920)
* possible-filename-completions (C-x /): Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6957)
* possible-hostname-completions (C-x @): Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6981)
* possible-username-completions (C-x ~): Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6965)
* possible-variable-completions (C-x $): Commands For Completion.
                                                             (line 6973)
* prefix-meta (<ESC>):                   Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7039)
* previous-history (C-p):                Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6691)
* quoted-insert (C-q or C-v):            Commands For Text.  (line 6772)
* re-read-init-file (C-x C-r):           Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7027)
* redraw-current-line ():                Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6678)
* reverse-search-history (C-r):          Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6705)
* revert-line (M-r):                     Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7046)
* self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...):      Commands For Text.  (line 6776)
* set-mark (C-@):                        Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7053)
* shell-backward-kill-word ():           Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6846)
* shell-backward-word ():                Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6670)
* shell-expand-line (M-C-e):             Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7133)
* shell-forward-word ():                 Commands For Moving.
                                                             (line 6666)
* shell-kill-word ():                    Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6841)
* skip-csi-sequence ():                  Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7072)
* start-kbd-macro (C-x ():               Keyboard Macros.    (line 7013)
* tilde-expand (M-&):                    Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7050)
* transpose-chars (C-t):                 Commands For Text.  (line 6779)
* transpose-words (M-t):                 Commands For Text.  (line 6785)
* undo (C-_ or C-x C-u):                 Miscellaneous Commands.
                                                             (line 7043)
* universal-argument ():                 Numeric Arguments.  (line 6895)
* unix-filename-rubout ():               Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6854)
* unix-line-discard (C-u):               Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6825)
* unix-word-rubout (C-w):                Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6850)
* upcase-word (M-u):                     Commands For Text.  (line 6790)
* yank (C-y):                            Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6881)
* yank-last-arg (M-. or M-_):            Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6743)
* yank-nth-arg (M-C-y):                  Commands For History.
                                                             (line 6734)
* yank-pop (M-y):                        Commands For Killing.
                                                             (line 6884)

D.5 Concept Index
=================

* Menu:

* alias expansion:                       Aliases.            (line 5133)
* arithmetic evaluation:                 Shell Arithmetic.   (line 5040)
* arithmetic expansion:                  Arithmetic Expansion.
                                                             (line 1560)
* arithmetic, shell:                     Shell Arithmetic.   (line 5040)
* arrays:                                Arrays.             (line 5182)
* background:                            Job Control Basics. (line 5669)
* Bash configuration:                    Basic Installation. (line 7884)
* Bash installation:                     Basic Installation. (line 7884)
* Bourne shell:                          Basic Shell Features.
                                                             (line  324)
* brace expansion:                       Brace Expansion.    (line 1246)
* builtin:                               Definitions.        (line  245)
* command editing:                       Readline Bare Essentials.
                                                             (line 5934)
* command execution:                     Command Search and Execution.
                                                             (line 2013)
* command expansion:                     Simple Command Expansion.
                                                             (line 1973)
* command history:                       Bash History Facilities.
                                                             (line 7551)
* command search:                        Command Search and Execution.
                                                             (line 2013)
* command substitution:                  Command Substitution.
                                                             (line 1532)
* command timing:                        Pipelines.          (line  544)
* commands, compound:                    Compound Commands.  (line  637)
* commands, conditional:                 Conditional Constructs.
                                                             (line  703)
* commands, grouping:                    Command Grouping.   (line  879)
* commands, lists:                       Lists.              (line  593)
* commands, looping:                     Looping Constructs. (line  649)
* commands, pipelines:                   Pipelines.          (line  541)
* commands, shell:                       Shell Commands.     (line  517)
* commands, simple:                      Simple Commands.    (line  528)
* comments, shell:                       Comments.           (line  505)
* completion builtins:                   Programmable Completion Builtins.
                                                             (line 7312)
* configuration:                         Basic Installation. (line 7884)
* control operator:                      Definitions.        (line  249)
* coprocess:                             Coprocesses.        (line  913)
* directory stack:                       The Directory Stack.
                                                             (line 5265)
* editing command lines:                 Readline Bare Essentials.
                                                             (line 5934)
* environment:                           Environment.        (line 2128)
* evaluation, arithmetic:                Shell Arithmetic.   (line 5040)
* event designators:                     Event Designators.  (line 7732)
* execution environment:                 Command Execution Environment.
                                                             (line 2057)
* exit status:                           Definitions.        (line  254)
* exit status <1>:                       Exit Status.        (line 2161)
* expansion:                             Shell Expansions.   (line 1215)
* expansion, arithmetic:                 Arithmetic Expansion.
                                                             (line 1560)
* expansion, brace:                      Brace Expansion.    (line 1246)
* expansion, filename:                   Filename Expansion. (line 1630)
* expansion, parameter:                  Shell Parameter Expansion.
                                                             (line 1359)
* expansion, pathname:                   Filename Expansion. (line 1630)
* expansion, tilde:                      Tilde Expansion.    (line 1299)
* expressions, arithmetic:               Shell Arithmetic.   (line 5040)
* expressions, conditional:              Bash Conditional Expressions.
                                                             (line 4908)
* field:                                 Definitions.        (line  258)
* filename:                              Definitions.        (line  263)
* filename expansion:                    Filename Expansion. (line 1630)
* foreground:                            Job Control Basics. (line 5669)
* functions, shell:                      Shell Functions.    (line 1001)
* history builtins:                      Bash History Builtins.
                                                             (line 7599)
* history events:                        Event Designators.  (line 7734)
* history expansion:                     History Interaction.
                                                             (line 7689)
* history list:                          Bash History Facilities.
                                                             (line 7551)
* History, how to use:                   Programmable Completion Builtins.
                                                             (line 7540)
* identifier:                            Definitions.        (line  279)
* initialization file, readline:         Readline Init File. (line 6102)
* installation:                          Basic Installation. (line 7884)
* interaction, readline:                 Readline Interaction.
                                                             (line 5920)
* interactive shell:                     Invoking Bash.      (line 4664)
* interactive shell <1>:                 Interactive Shells. (line 4792)
* internationalization:                  Locale Translation. (line  489)
* job:                                   Definitions.        (line  266)
* job control:                           Definitions.        (line  270)
* job control <1>:                       Job Control Basics. (line 5669)
* kill ring:                             Readline Killing Commands.
                                                             (line 6009)
* killing text:                          Readline Killing Commands.
                                                             (line 5997)
* localization:                          Locale Translation. (line  489)
* login shell:                           Invoking Bash.      (line 4661)
* matching, pattern:                     Pattern Matching.   (line 1666)
* metacharacter:                         Definitions.        (line  274)
* name:                                  Definitions.        (line  279)
* native languages:                      Locale Translation. (line  489)
* notation, readline:                    Readline Bare Essentials.
                                                             (line 5934)
* operator, shell:                       Definitions.        (line  285)
* parameter expansion:                   Shell Parameter Expansion.
                                                             (line 1359)
* parameters:                            Shell Parameters.   (line 1095)
* parameters, positional:                Positional Parameters.
                                                             (line 1134)
* parameters, special:                   Special Parameters. (line 1150)
* pathname expansion:                    Filename Expansion. (line 1630)
* pattern matching:                      Pattern Matching.   (line 1666)
* pipeline:                              Pipelines.          (line  541)
* POSIX:                                 Definitions.        (line  237)
* POSIX Mode:                            Bash POSIX Mode.    (line 5466)
* process group:                         Definitions.        (line  290)
* process group ID:                      Definitions.        (line  294)
* process substitution:                  Process Substitution.
                                                             (line 1579)
* programmable completion:               Programmable Completion.
                                                             (line 7184)
* prompting:                             Printing a Prompt.  (line 5348)
* quoting:                               Quoting.            (line  386)
* quoting, ANSI:                         ANSI-C Quoting.     (line  440)
* Readline, how to use:                  Job Control Variables.
                                                             (line 5868)
* redirection:                           Redirections.       (line 1752)
* reserved word:                         Definitions.        (line  298)
* restricted shell:                      The Restricted Shell.
                                                             (line 5429)
* return status:                         Definitions.        (line  303)
* shell arithmetic:                      Shell Arithmetic.   (line 5040)
* shell function:                        Shell Functions.    (line 1001)
* shell script:                          Shell Scripts.      (line 2231)
* shell variable:                        Shell Parameters.   (line 1095)
* shell, interactive:                    Interactive Shells. (line 4792)
* signal:                                Definitions.        (line  306)
* signal handling:                       Signals.            (line 2194)
* special builtin:                       Definitions.        (line  310)
* special builtin <1>:                   Special Builtins.   (line 3874)
* startup files:                         Bash Startup Files. (line 4682)
* suspending jobs:                       Job Control Basics. (line 5669)
* tilde expansion:                       Tilde Expansion.    (line 1299)
* token:                                 Definitions.        (line  314)
* translation, native languages:         Locale Translation. (line  489)
* variable, shell:                       Shell Parameters.   (line 1095)
* variables, readline:                   Readline Init File Syntax.
                                                             (line 6151)
* word:                                  Definitions.        (line  318)
* word splitting:                        Word Splitting.     (line 1601)
* yanking text:                          Readline Killing Commands.
                                                             (line 5997)